---
title: Going Off-Route
image: "https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52425546247_b4e2b47fea_o.jpg"
imageAlt: "Julie on the Prairie Spirit Rail Trail"
---

Today we deviated from the TransAm route so that we can take the Katy trail across Missouri. The Katy trail is a rail trail, so it’s car-free and reasonably flat. The TransAm through Missouri is quite hilly through the Ozarks, so this seemed like a nice alternative. 

We left Chanute and headed North, getting on a different rail trail in Humboldt. We passed an active quarry and a concrete factory on our way into Humboldt. There was a lot going on there! Trucks, train cars, construction equipment. It was interesting to see it all in action. 

Humboldt itself was very cute. I wish we had time to stay there for a day to explore, but we just rode through the downtown area. The rail trails were nice, but it surprised me how much harder it is to ride on unpaved trails. It thankfully wasn’t gravel, and I was able to ride it with my thinner tires, but it still required much more effort than riding on roads. 

We’re staying the night at a nice hotel in Garnett, Kansas. Tomorrow: Missouri!

#### Highlights
- The rail trails provided a welcome respite from cars and a consistent (but not complete) shelter from the strong westerly winds. 
- We met a couple of very friendly people outside of the Walmart in Iola. One was a local cyclists who also does touring. We chatted about US Bicycle Route 76, which we had been on every day we’ve been in Kansas until today, and about the Katy trail. We also talked to an old man who recommended a nearby lake. 
- We saw two living turtles on the trail today. 

#### Lowlights
- We were chased by a dog. Again. He gave up pretty quickly though. Probably because we were on a busy road. 
- It was much harder to ride on the unpaved trail than the roads. I was _significantly_ slower today. We’ll have to adjust our mileage goals each day for while we’re riding the Katy trail. 

#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: Field Roast breakfast sammie 
- First Snack: no cow bar
- Lunch: bread and peanut butter, bread and guacamole 
- Second Snack: Clif bar 
- Dinner: Buffalo cauliflower wings, buffalo chick’n sandwich with guacamole 

#### Stats
- Total distance: 46.92 miles
- Elevation gain: 709 feet
- Weather: windy and dry, high of 68 degrees Fahrenheit
