---
title: Jeff City
image: "https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52435945846_78c9307bf0_o.jpg"
imageAlt: "Mike enjoying a snack break along the Missouri River"
---

Today was a GREAT day. It was wicked cold but the ride was just perfect. We rode along the Missouri River for much of the day, with the trail nestled between the river and a wall of rock. The trees are changing colors. A wonderful ride. 

We stopped for second breakfast at a bicycle shop / cafe right on the trail in Rocheport. It was not an original idea. The place was completely packed with cyclists, which was great to see. There was a big group from Oklahoma City there. We also ran into the same couple we chatted with yesterday, who gave us winery recommendations for tomorrow in Hermann. 

Next time I ride the Katy trail, I’ll want to spend the night in Rochepart. Just after leaving the cafe, we passed a winery up on a bluff. There were stairs climbing up the rock from the trail and a ton of bikes left at the bottom. 

One point of interest along the ride was a sign marker indicating a place where Lewis and Clark camped. 

After we got to the AirBnB in Jefferson City (or “Jeff City”, as it appears the locals call it), Mike and I were very productive. 
- We first went to a bike store to buy safety flags for our bikes. It seemed like a good idea but it didn’t occur to me that the flag pole _wouldn’t_ be collapsible. So now I just have a 6ft pole on my bike. All the time, I guess. 
- We then went to the public library to use a computer. We needed to plan out how to get back on the TransAm after we get to St Louis and knew it would be easier on a computer than a phone. 
- Had dinner at a Thai restaurant. 
- Stopped by a grocery store, so that we can have a feast for breakfast tomorrow. 
- Planned out our stops and lodging for the next week or so. 

#### Highlights
- beautiful scenery 


#### Lowlights
- VERY cold


#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: leftover pasta with tomato sauce and snausage
- First Snack: Clif bar
- Second Breakfast: granola, berries, and almond milk
- Lunch: peanut butter sandwich, apple
- Second Snack: Clif bar 
- Dinner: panang curry with tofu

#### Stats
- Total distance: 53.03 miles
- Elevation gain: 267 feet
- Weather: cold and dry, high of 51 degrees Fahrenheit (low of 31)
