---
title: We made it to Colorado
image: "https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52384625755_4d477fe668_o.jpg"
imageAlt: "Mike and Julie at the Utah/Colorado border"
---

Today we crossed the border from Utah to Colorado. I’m feeling very pleased to be in our fourth state, and looking at the map of where we’ve already traveled is now starting to appear impressive. 

We had a long ride today. 75 miles. We’re staying at a particularly nice campsite outside of Dolores.

The scenery has changed a lot in the last day. After riding through basically untamed wilderness for days, we’re now riding through farm fields. We mostly rode through rolling hills all day, with mountains looking in the distance. 

#### Highlights
- I saw many prairie dogs scampering along the side of the road 
- I saw the tiniest of frogs outside the bathroom at the campsite
 entered Colorado

#### Lowlights
- there was a _lot_ of roadkill on the road today. Mostly in the shoulder. So it was A.) sad, and B.) a recurring obstacle to navigate while riding next to a road with a seemingly unending stream of semi-trucks. 
- Jordan got another flat, from a screw this time. 

#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: oatmeal, toast and almond butter, coffee
- First Snack: Clif bar
- Second snack: Clif bar
- Lunch: peanut butter banana sandwich
- Third Snack:  Clif bar
- Appetizer: chips and guac
- Dinner: bean chili with rice

#### Stats
- Total distance: 75.72 miles
- Elevation gain: 4,881 feet
- Weather: hot and dry, high of 78 degrees Fahrenheit
