---
title: Tornados in Richmond and an unexpected day off 
---

Today we planned to ride from Richmond to Williamsburg. We’ve known for several days that the forecast called for a ton of rain today. We were going to ride anyway. When we woke up this morning we saw the forecast called for thunderstorms too and we were in a tornado watch, so we decided not to ride. It was so frustrating to be roughly 75 miles from the end of this multi-month trip, and to be unable to ride. However, this  did turn out to be a good place to be stranded for the day.

We had a lazy morning, went to my brother’s house for a bit, went to a movie, and then met up with all the Kauffmans in the area at Hardywood brewery. 

While we were at the movie, everyone’s phone went off in the theater with an emergency alert about a tornado warning for the area. After the movie, we hung out at the theater for about an hour while waiting for the tornado warning to end. Guess it was a good thing we weren’t on our bikes. 

We couldn’t extend our AirBnB in Richmond a day, so we’re staying at my brother’s house. My parents are here too so it’s a full house! 

#### Highlights
- since we postponed the next leg of our trip a day, we all needed to move back our hotel reservation a day in Williamsburg. Mike was on hold for more than an hour trying to talk to someone at the hotel. Kelly was on hold for a long time too. Somehow my mom got someone on the phone and was able to push all our reservations back a night. She texted a number we all had called and they called her back right away. 
- the brewery had great beer and great pizza

#### Lowlights
- not being able to ride 

#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: leftover Philly cheesesteak sandwich, leftover Philly cheesesteak fries, leftover Philly cheesesteak egg roll, Jewish apple cake 
- Dinner: mushroom pizza with chili tahini dipping sauce

#### Stats
- Total distance: 0 miles
- Elevation gain: 0 feet
- Weather: wet and stormy, high of 75 degrees Fahrenheit
