---
title: Lebanon, VA
image: "https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52475501941_dc2af8cbd8_o.jpg"
imageAlt: "the view of the Appalachian mountains from Virginia"
---

Today was a good day. We had good weather and scenery, we went a reasonable distance, and all the climbs were manageable. The scenery has changed a lot since yesterday. Even though it’s the same mountain range that we were in just yesterday, it seems much more hospitable. 

We left the TransAm at the end of the day and are spending the night in Lebanon. 

#### Highlights
- I wasn’t chased by any dogs today. There was one that looked to be gearing up to chase me, but I slowed down and gave it a stern talking to and it left me alone. Much more civilized than the Kentucky dogs. I would not have slowed down around any of those dogs. 

#### Lowlights
- I had some problems with my front derailleur this morning. It just kept slipping to the smallest sprocket. And as an interesting quirk of my rear derailleur which is “old and tired”, according to a mechanic in South Lake Tahoe, if the front derailleur is in the smallest sprocket, the rear derailleur will only accept the largest sprocket. So I only had my lowest gear, and that wouldn’t do at all. It took a couple stops and some tweaking but Mike was able to sort out the front derailleur. 

#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: oatmeal and coffee
- First Snack: Clif bar
- Second Snack: Clif bar
- Lunch: peanut butter sandwich, Oreos 
- Third Snack: chips and guac, “corn dogs”  
- Dinner: veggie burger, cashew milk ice cream

#### Stats
- Total distance: 52.93 miles
- Elevation gain: 5,592 feet
- Weather: dry, high of 71 degrees Fahrenheit
