---
title: The Katy trail
image: "https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52433938790_f19bef14d3_o.jpg"
imageAlt: "Mike enjoying the Katy"
---

Today we rode on the Katy trail all day from Windsor to Boonville. It was a lovely, completely car-free ride. The weather was perfect. The leaves on the trees are changing colors, so it was also beautiful. 

During the ride I met a couple who have ridden the Katy trail multiple times and are doing it again. They had lots of recommendations for wineries we will be passing that we should visit. They planned their current trip back in January, and will be staying at some really cool places, like a train car that was converted to a hotel room and a loft in a barn. I would love to come back and do the Katy some time when I have lots of free time, so I can fully explore all the towns along the trail. 

We’re spending the night at an AirBnB in Boonville. Apparently it was decided to be one of the top ten small towns in America, according to Smithsonian Magazine. Mike and I walked the Main Street tonight. It was really cute, but unfortunately _everything_ was closed on Sundays. 

#### Highlights
- just a lovely day of riding. Good weather, relaxing trail, autumn leaves 
- not chased by any dogs 

#### Lowlights
- none! Great day all around. 

#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: Field Roast breakfast sammie 
- First Snack: Clif bar
- Lunch: peanut butter sandwich, pistachios 
- Second Snack: Clif bar
- Dinner: Pasta with tomato sauce and snausage, BBQ chips

#### Stats
- Total distance: 56.52 miles
- Elevation gain: 1,048 feet
- Weather: dry, high of 68 degrees Fahrenheit
