---
title: Virginia
image: "https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52473354971_b2cfeac38e_o.jpg"
imageAlt: "The gang made it to Virginia"
---

We made it to Virginia today! We rode a whopping 10 miles to get here. And we stopped four times on the way (grocery store, liquor store, scenic overlook, Welcome to Virginia sign). So. An easy day. The easiest of days. 

Riding just 10 miles was _not_ our preference but there’s just nowhere to stay on this stretch of the TransAm. Our map includes “cyclist-only lodging” options in many of the towns, but I called all of them and the phone numbers were either disconnected or the person who answered said they weren’t doing that anymore. Any websites we found online for businesses no longer exist. 

As a result, we had to rethink the next few days. We’ve decided to leave the TransAm so we can stay in towns with lodging options. Some cyclists we ran into in Marion and again in Sebree rented a car to drive through eastern Kentucky, so they are a few days ahead of us now, and they told us about a recommended detour they heard about from a local pastor that saves a day and a ton of climbing. So we’re incorporating that into our detour as well. 

I had one final Kentucky dog chase me today. We are all very glad to be in Virginia. Is it likely that an arbitrary state line will have a significant impact on the riding conditions? Probably not. But we are optimistic that the dogs will be less menacing now. 

#### Highlights
- we made it to Virginia
- easy day, a welcome respite to our tired muscles 

#### Lowlights
- none!

#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: leftover scramble (potatoes, snausage, tofu, spinach, onion, “feta”)
- First Snack: peanut butter sandwich
- Lunch: vegetable soup and bread
- Second Snack: chips and guac, blueberries
- Dinner: peanut butter sandwich, Oreos 

#### Stats
- Total distance: 10.36 miles
- Elevation gain: 744 feet
- Weather: dry, high of 66 degrees Fahrenheit
