---
title: Why do you have a flag? (You look like a dork)
image: "https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52449520441_151c1006eb_o.jpg"
imageAlt: "Mike enjoying an Illinois sunrise in an attempt to beat the wind"
---

Today was another challenging day, with a strong and persistent headwind. We had another 60 miles to go, mostly southeast, with winds out of the south. Unlike yesterday, we mostly stair-stepped south and then east the whole way, and each stretch of a headwind was only a couple miles. That helped mentally a lot. 

Mike and I stopped for a couple hours in the town (city?) of Marion about halfway through our ride. We went to Walmart to get dinner for tonight and breakfast for tomorrow. Afterwards we stopped at a Thai restaurant for lunch. We were waiting in the parking lot for it to open at 11 and we weren’t the only ones. It was the place to be for lunch on Sunday. 

Apart from the wind, the weather was good. Warm and sunny. The scenery was good too. We passed a lot of fields and residential neighborhoods. At one point we rode down a street with some kids playing. I was ahead of Mike and the kids cheered me on and told me I was a winner. When Mike went through they asked him why he had a flag. They were probably too nice to point out we look like dorks. 

#### Highlights
- excellent Thai food for lunch 
- we rode through Shawnee National Forest, which was beautiful and provided some shelter from the wind

#### Lowlights
- there have been a couple times where I was riding ahead of Mike and a dog has chased me and then by the time Mike passes the dog, the dog has ignored him entirely. Today, however, Mike was ahead of me and passed a house unscathed. When I rode by four dogs came barreling around the side of the house and chased me down the road. 
- headwind

#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: snausage bap
- First Snack: no cow bar
- Lunch: Pad Thai with tofu
- Second Snack: Clif bar
- Dinner: nuggies, chick’n piccata, peanut butter and bread

#### Stats
- Total distance: 62.81 miles
- Elevation gain: 2,226 feet
- Weather: windy and dry, high of 80 degrees Fahrenheit
