---
title: Halfway point 
image: "https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/52414442653_220f832d1a_o.jpg"
imageAlt: "Mike enjoying a beer to celebrate reaching the halfway point while at a local craft brewery in Great Bend, Kansas"
---

Today we crossed the longitude line of the geographic center of the United States (39.8355, -99.090833, outside of Smith Center, Kansas).  We have also completed 51% of the total anticipated mileage of our trip. Today is day 39, so I’m feeling very good about that. Staying on our current trajectory would have us finishing in 11 weeks, and we have 13.5 weeks allotted. 

#### Highlights
- No headwind! My average speed was 44% faster than it was yesterday. It was much easier too. 
- Great Bend has a large enough population to necessitate a good deal of amenities. We were able to find a variety of vegan frozen meals for dinner tonight and breakfast tomorrow. 
- We found a nice craft brewery in town. I had a flight: Märzen, wheat lager, porter, and blueberry wheat. 
- There was a section of our ride today with rolling hills. That segment on Strava is named “the only rollers of the day”. Calling it “the only rollers of the week” would have been appropriate too. 

#### Lowlights
- None! It was a good day


#### Julie's food
- Breakfast: oatmeal and coffee 
- First Snack: Clif bar
- Second Snack: Clif bar and BBQ potato chips
- Lunch: peanut butter sandwich, Gatorade  
- Dinner: fries, impossible chicken teriyaki bowl, pizza bites, buffalo cauliflower wings

#### Stats
- Total distance: 62.82 miles
- Elevation gain: 475 feet
- Weather: overcast, high of  66 degrees Fahrenheit
