Fall is my favorite season- by far.  I know it's become cliché and borderline annoying to have this opinion given how ubiquitous PSLs and the idea of "sweater weather" have become, but I just can't help myself.  When October rolls around and you get those crisp mornings and the leaves turn from green to yellow to red, nothing is better.  I love the spooky movies on TV, pumpkin flavored treats, and warm beverages.  When the weather is just right-cool with the perfect tinge of gold from the setting sun- I'd swear you can almost feel the magic in the air.  

I was lucky enough to capture a bit of this special feeling during our 50+ mile ride on Missouri's Katy rail trail today.  We had perfect fall weather and most of the trail was enclosed in a beautiful canopy of fall leaves.  The Katy trail is a very welcome change from the road biking we've done on almost all the trip so far.  It's so nice to be away from cars and on a softer surface.  I'm super impressed with how much the state of Missouri has invested in the upkeep of the trail.  The buildings that once served as train depots have now been turned into museums or nice rest stops for cyclists, and the old rail line itself is now an easy to bike packed limestone path with gentle grading.  I'm surprised to say it, but Missouri is turning out to be my favorite state to bike through of the whole trip!  It may not have the majestic landscape of Utah or Colorado, but a great bike path combined with some lovely weather is a winning combination in my book.

